Allendale serves a noted Freedom of
Information Act attorney Jim Lazar as
director of the assassination archives
and research center you can find our
website at the AARC library org he's the
host of JFK conversations which is at
JFK conversations dot-com
all one word he's affiliated with the
research groups JFK Lancer and Kappa and
he's responsible for administration and
content at JFK JM in dot-com and that is
the website of dr. John Newman for whom
Allen is the administrative and research
assistant so Allen thanks for talking me
today happy to be with you great so you
know I was excited to talk to you
because you are in so many of these
interesting organizations and there
really are so many serious organizations
working very hard on on this case even
today 54 years later and they're
constantly coming up with new
information the AR C is you know going
through lawsuits or sending FOIA
requests in so it's very interesting and
you touch a lot of these areas so you
know I was excited to talk to you about
these things let's start with the AARC
that to me is one of the most
interesting organizations I actually
watching their 2014 conference which you
or the I guess the MC or the host of out
was very eye-opening so do you want to
talk about the AR see maybe the history
and what they do over there be happy to
I enjoy lots of privileges one to which
you referred is I am a administrative
and research assistant to dr. John
Newman who's on the board of directors
of the assassination archives and
research center I'm not his only
research assistant senior research
sistent too dr. Newman for 25 years and
someone who's played an important role
in the work we associate with dr. Newman
as guy named Jay Harvey and without Jays
influence I think our story my
not be exactly where we are but I enjoy
privileges and the the extent to which
the AARC is a serious organization is I
think a reflection of the fact that very
serious scholarship and very serious
research should be you know seriously
organized so back in 1984 after already
best part of two decades working in the
proverbial halls of power in Washington
DC an attorney named Bernard finsterwald
jr. and a young attorney had you know at
some point he was young
Jim Lazar they founded the what is today
the assassination archives and Research
Center it's a nonprofit organization
dedicated to the acquisition and
dissemination of records associated with
the assassinations not exclusively
President Kennedy's assassination but
obviously the political assassinations
of the 60s are regarded I think quite
properly as of supreme consequence in
terms of our story and the way the
government of the United States has
represented our story to us is part of
what we're engaged in trying to
understand trying to come to terms with
trying to come to a deeper and better
understanding about these fundamental
aspects what happened and why have we
been lied to about it right Pat and Jim
Lazar has a long history I found some
videos in The Herald Weisberg archives
but he was Harold Weisberg's attorney or
at some out absolutely right he is an
unsung hero I think he's you know the
realm you and I could talk probably for
quite some time just about what what is
referred to as the the proverbial JFK
research community but Jim has
played a an activist role behind the
scenes in with regard to requesting and
seeking an initiating legal action on
behalf of all of us who are reliant upon
someone else to provide information for
us to consider and really you know the
basic sort of story I think can properly
be described as being rather one-sided
if we talk about the story of President
Kennedy's assassination we have an
official government position that is
imposed upon us and then basically
that's it until some slight variation on
that official government position is
imposed upon us and so if it's a one-way
street you know that's not really that's
that's probably not going to lead to a
multi-dimensional perspective about the
kind of information that might be
relevant to arriving at a more informed
perspective and so rather than just
dealing with things that are imposed
upon us as hey here's the answer and
this is everything you need to know and
I'll give you an example that the
Central Intelligence Agency had only a
routine interest in Lee Harvey Oswald
period so if there's more to that story
we're not going to get it from people
who who demand of us that we accept that
there's nothing more to the story and
that's where someone of the stature of
Jim Lazar comes in who's dedicated his
life to engaging in American courts
courtrooms the process by which we might
be better educated as the result of
having access to things which
theoretically are ours and should not
belong exclusively to people who might
themselves or elements which might
themselves be worthy of investigation
so mr. Lazar is there and the people
he's working with he'll make a FOIA
request do some of these lawsuits and
then the AARC is actually a library
where people can go or what would we
what would we find if we went to the
office of the AARC
well you'd find an awful lot of paper an
awful lot of paper an awful lot of books
what we have is we're not open to the
public we have one of the largest
repositories of books relevant to the
political assassinations primarily of
the sixties but not exclusively
we have about 80,000 pages or more of
records obtained under the Freedom of
Information Act which are exclusively
FBI materials which were relevant to the
House Select Committee on assassinations
you know that there's was really the the
unique period of our contemporary
history was the period of the 70s where
quite a lot was going on and approaching
any part of the the drama that was part
of the story of America in the 70s you
know you're going to come to places
where you think well gosh it turns out
that what's beneath the surface of what
we're told is really deep and dark and
Byzantine and fascinating so there's
quite a lot more to the 70s than just
Watergate and the end of the Vietnam War
and a brief period during which the
government of the United States as
opposed to what I would characterize as
the national security establishment or
the national security state the elected
government was I think making a genuine
effort through a series a succession of
investigative bodies the pike committee
the Church Committee which was so
important the Rockefeller Commission the
words committee the all precursors to
the House Select Committee on
assassinations and the amount of effort
and the amount of energy that was
devoted by the people who were engaged
in those investigations really created a
brand new database for students of
American history so as opposed to the
contemporary practice which I'm being
subjected to on a daily basis now where
people were requesting interviews who
might otherwise have no interest in you
know the deep politics of the times in
which we live or the circumstances by
which President Kennedy was murdered
because of the news that Donald Trump
tweeted something which is being
interpreted either reasonably or
irrationally on the subject of the
release of the remaining
materials as of October 26th as you well
know the 1992 President John F Kennedy
records collection Act reaches its
proverbial statutory conclusion at which
point all of the records being held
which have been designated as
assassination related that's important
are required by that law to be released
in full no more in part or nor info
things that have been redacted but that
we've seen parts of are supposed to be
you know made completely available to us
unless the originating agency like for
instance if we're talking about CIA
files the originating agency has an
avenue available to request that the
President of the United States intervene
with the process the process is the law
and that's supposed to happen without
any you know authorization by the
president but he may not entirely
understand that I have no idea what he
understands but he did make a statement
recently to the effect that barring some
kind of new information the receipt of
new information that he intends to you
know release all their stuff it's as if
it's something that he does with the you
know wave of his scepter but but without
regard to that we were sometimes
described as conspiracy theorists and if
you don't believe anything else anybody
ever tells you you can believe that
throughout all of recorded history
whatever makes it to the surface
whatever makes it to the sort of almost
folkloric popular version of something
is usually just the tip of the iceberg
and so in the case of the 70s you have
this extraordinary period where for the
first time ever the you know elements of
the national security state are being
subjected to serious investigation the
results of which are getting very close
to some things having some revelations
about some things have raising a bit new
grade better quality deeper questions
and then the conclusion of the the
Carter Administration the recrudescence
of the period where the agency is sort
of empowering itself to do things which
ultimately make news when when mistakes
are made and the era of William Casey
where during the entire next 12 years
absolutely nothing happens to follow up
on the work of the Church Committee or
the House Select Committee on
assassinations until Oliver Stone film
Oliver Stone's film JFK you know impacts
upon American popular culture in a
profound way because it was still
possible to get people there were enough
people who still cared who were still
haunted who lived their lives with the
sense that something had gone terribly
wrong and had
curiosity about what on earth might be
the true story and Oliver Stone in a
fictional construct was able to create
some sort of pastiche of about 28 years
worth of research and speculation and in
intuition and mistakes and things that
were not wrong and just creative
beautifully crafted Academy Award worthy
motion picture which by the way
benefited I think significantly from the
influence of one of his principal
advisors on the set who at the time was
an active-duty career strategic
intelligence Cryptologic analyst for
army intelligence named dr. John Newman
in any event so I I realized I I don't
even remember what your first question
but don't mind me you voice you know
you've walked us through the the the
history of kind of how this we've got to
this point in and what has forced some
of these documents out but to go back to
the AR see a little bit what were some
of there's definitely one at a recent
conference I guess or I guess you called
a press conference with judge tunheim
who was the judge against chairman the
chairman of the ARB yeah right he Jim
Lazar spoke there and he said one of the
most facets piqued my interest an
incredible amount he said the best
current lead in the JFK assassination
was one Nazi assassin can you can you
tell us a little bit about more about
about this in general and where it came
from
yeah yes I can this will be of interest
to HPL Borelli who has a new book coming
out called qje when as a co-writer mr.
ganas Ralph Ganis and they've done work
that I think focuses on someone other
than the figure to which Jim Lazar
referred
we post
news and and views the opinions the
perspectives which are always you know
labeled such we don't differ we're come
very country interests about
differentiating between reporting news
versus editorializing
so there's a very you'd be surprised how
that's not always the case
in this realm people who seem to not
bother to differentiate between opinion
you know it's this thing about you know
data gathering versus data analysis and
some people who gather data might not be
the best qualified to analyze that data
but on the subject to which you're
referring one of the board members
brilliant attorney from the AARC named
dan Alcorn has been very interested for
quite some time about the period
following the immediate aftermath of
world war ii in the period when some
extremely serious nazi intellectuals
were and intelligence officers were have
found benefactors among the some very
influential figures in the american
national security establishment and so
without being getting too mired in a
really deep and heavy thing dan Alcorn
has been pursuing the relationship the
story of the relationship between man
named eh bird who owned among other
distinguishing sort of qualities he was
the owner of the Texas School Book
Depository he was someone who was deeply
integrated into the sort of the society
of the kind of hard right wing ultra
patriot anti-communist kind of people
who were you know who socialized with
each other and as the owner of the Texas
School Book Depository he's someone who
enters into our sphere of awareness
quite apart from his
and playing an important role in the
Civil Air Patrol with which Lee Oswald
seems to have had some sort of modest
affiliation in the company of people of
interest David very maybe we certainly
have seen a picture but but th Byrd was
a friend of a former Nazi or maybe you
know there's no such thing well right
exactly once a Nazi always a Nazi for
all I know but the the the guy's name
was he was not really a baron but his
name was von Alvin Slavin and von Alvin
slabin maintained a very successful what
he would have called a gaming reserve a
hunting reserve in in Portuguese each
East Africa Portuguese I don't remember
where it is but whatever the hell it is
it was it was a heck of a big place
where all kinds of people like Jimmy
general Jimmy Doolittle and all kinds of
other people were interested in meeting
and having a great time and going out
and shooting big-game so Verner von
Alvin slabin was a person who had a
favorite weapon a preferred high-quality
hunting rifle that was known it was a
man liquor show an hour
not not mannlicher-carcano but a man
liquor show an hour which apparently was
capable of firing the same type of
ammunition as 6.5 mannlicher-carcano
mm-hmm
and so the coincidence that Dan has
referred to without at all declaring
that this is something which we know to
be directly related to the assassination
we're examining this and we're
interested in learning more so you know
there's this place in Portuguese East
Africa and according to the dallas
society pages in the fall of
three according to those pages where
someone called the the editor or whoever
was in charge of that particular part of
the paper and said hey D H bird is on a
hunting Safari at this place called
Safari land eeeh in Portuguese East
Africa with a very distinguished African
game hunter named Verner von Alvin
sleepin in Alvin Laban was somebody that
had an extraordinarily notorious career
before World War two and during World
War two
and has a book called Baron of or Baron
in Africa by a guy named Brian Marsh and
one of the stipulations that von Alvin's
Laban said to Brian Marsh was I don't
want to talk about anything prior to a
specific point in the 30s and yet even
without talking about whatever he thinks
is so is sensitive that he won't talk
about it he still has a life that's
interesting and colorful enough that
it's worthy of a biography so he's
somebody who hosted American astronauts
he hosted all kinds of European royalty
and he hosted people with whom for all I
know he shared some similarities in
terms of political ideology about you
know these virulent lay anti-communist
and primarily anti Soviet sure
philosophy sure and we shouldn't be you
know this is a very well-known part of
US history that you know that CIA and
the organization before them the OPC
brought in lots of ex-nazis or the
general Reinhard Galen basically went to
work for the early CIA so this is not
this is not unheard of this is a part of
the synergy between the far-right in the
United States and and the remnants of
the Nazis so it's a very interesting
connection why degree I'm not sure
though that it is really even though
maybe broadly it's something that you
know it might ring a dim bell with
certain amount of people
I've created a page on the menu on menu
item for the AARC library or called Cold
War context and I think that there are
two entries there too that I'd like to
draw a little bit of attention to one is
something that describes in some detail
the Hoover report of 1954 which is more
usually referred to as the Doolittle
report this is a report on the covert
activities at Central Intelligence
Agency it was introduced it was
requested by going outside of the agency
not asking the agency to report upon
itself but President Eisenhower wanted
some kind of guidance about what exactly
the agency was at that particular point
the result of which is this this quite
remarkable document not all of which is
visible to us some of it is redacted but
most of it is there certainly enough to
get a sense of what might be sort of a
manifesto in a way because I can give
you a quote from it it says we are
facing an enemy whose objective is world
domination by whatever means at whatever
cost there are no rules hitherto
acceptable norms of human conduct do not
apply that that quote taken directly out
of this report with General Jimmy
Doolittle's name on it I think sort of
epitomizes the mentality that was
becoming increasingly fevered during the
period which which ultimately saw the
Joseph McCarthy era and the Red Scare
and the claims that there were lots of
card-carrying communists and though the
whole the kind of environment where a
program like I led three lives story of
a guy named herb Philbrick may have you
know been influential to young people
who became aware that there were these
terrible enemies named communists and
you could grow up if you were super cool
and be a an informant
or something a spy basically for the FBI
or maybe some other intelligence
gathering organization and maybe that's
something that a young person might have
aspired to during the period for all I
know the other report from that page to
which I referred is something that is
also worth I mean really genuinely worth
being aware of and and that's something
that was authored by one of Jim
lazarre's perpetual clients the late
Carl Oglesby and this is one that if I
really would advocate that everybody who
can go to the AARC library org take the
necessary time and read the secret
treaty of fort hunt by Carl Oglesby
because there's a lot there that that I
think will probably be news to a lot of
people who are curious about the Cold
War and in the consequential period
after Franklin well really for the last
couple of years of the war and then all
of what ultimately we associate with you
know the history of the agency and the
era during the Eisenhower administration
of John Foster Dulles and Allen Dulles
or as Winston Churchill would have said
dull dullard uhlet's right all right I
know that that is actually that's a very
fascinating article I hear oh and I
didn't I didn't realize that I know that
he had gone through major battles with
the CIA and the US Army Ockham's we did
but I there's taste that's been there
for about I mean I know you're gonna
think this sounds crazy but I believe I
understand it's about 30 years and it
survived mister Oglesby who
unfortunately has this it's not with us
but his work is consequential and Jim
Lazar continues to fight the proverbial
good fight on his behalf
well another
lawsuit that the AARC was a part of
maybe we can talk just to give the
outlines of was Jefferson Morley's
lawsuit against the CAA and how many how
many years that went for over a decade I
believe what you want to tell us a
little bit about that one uh there was
the story which may be slightly well
known now or maybe not about a guy named
George Johnny D's and his coming out of
retirement or at least that's what we're
told during the period of the House
Select Committee on assassinations and
in sort of mid 1978 the two young
investigators who are empowered by
Congress to work with the CIA
and request documents relevant to the
investigation of President Kennedy's
assassination suddenly are confronted by
a new guy in the new guys named George
joy needies they're introduced to him
and he's going to be the new liaison and
that's when you know steel doors start
coming down and other strange things so
one of the strange things is a point at
which one of the principle investigators
either the great Dayton Fonzi or my dear
friend Dan hardway or Eddie Lopez speak
personally with mr. Joe and hades and
inquire about the about assistance
finding the name of a CIA case officer
who would have been extremely well
documented because quite a lot is
extremely well documented in the agency
that's an understatement
so their question is can you to help us
find who was the case officer for the
dra the revolutionary student
directorate with which Lee Oswald had
some kind of newsworthy encounter on the
streets of New Orleans in the summer of
1963 the result of that question because
it was thought that since really the
organized anti-castro paramilitary and
other efforts that were ongoing during
that period within the United States
shall we say frequently
had an association of some kind with the
agency so they asked mr. Joe Anita's can
you help us find out we want to know who
was the CIA case officer who was
disseminating the significant amount of
money on a monthly basis to the d-r-e
who was the agent in charge the officer
in charge the person acting as the point
of contact on behalf of the agency with
the d-r-e to which mr. Joe and Eadie
says I'll look into that so in 2001 or
there abouts Washington Post reporter
who has his own unique history that's
relevant to our progress especially a
particular moment which which would not
have happened without both Geoff Morley
and dr. John Newman in November 3rd of
1994 in the home of Allison senior
liaison desk officer named Jane Roman
and what happened is the result of that
encounter which is impossible to to
exaggerate it was a very important
moment Geoff more leaves looking through
documents and by God he discovers that
the name of the of the case officer
handling the d-r-e during the period in
New Orleans where Oswald has his event
which generated newspaper television and
radio coverage was a guy named George Jo
and edie's so you know lawsuits
commenced and that's been going on for a
long time there's also something that I
don't know if I've shared with you that
we just got some materials I could read
this to either you'll find this
interesting I'm sure you're acquainted
with the infamous William King Harvey
and the David Talbott produced a book a
couple years ago called the devil's
chessboard excellent and we were you
know we were always interested in the
background the context and I could talk
to you about sort of an impression of
what what exactly are we doing you know
and how can you begin
to try to put it in some sort of
framework fee that you can deal with
because you know very broadly there are
lots of different aspects of these
complexities there are forensic things
that have to do with you know 21st
century forensics and developments in
you know skull fracture sequencing
studies and high-speed photography about
ballistics and new types of technologies
that can be applied to cold cases
there's an awful lot of stuff pertaining
to you know Dealey Plaza there's an
awful lot of stuff pertaining to outside
of Dealey Plaza
and I think maybe most you know without
being to making a qualitative
distinction my position is that it the
story for us begins sometime prior to
12:30 in the afternoon on November 22nd
1963 so one of the people were
interested in is a guy named William
King Harvey and as the result of
questions which arise because that's
that's really a good way to look at what
we're doing we we get to new places new
stations new stages and we have new
questions and sometimes there there are
better questions they're more detailed
there we're zeroing in on greater detail
we're creating a representation of what
happened and we want it to be like a map
we want it to be as accurate as possible
so one way to look at all of this is
well it's it's a form of cartography
multi-dimensional cartography we want to
learn as much as we can about the
documentary record which describes what
happened and we want to learn as much as
we can about the players on the field
and that includes a man named William
King Harvey who carried great big hats
inside the agency as station chief in
Berlin for a number of years and that
brought him into proximity and people
like peter Popoff and people that would
be relevant to the Spy vs spy stuff it's
very interesting battle ground Berlin
stuff Sergei Kandra Chev people
eglee all of those stuff that we we
benefit from the collapse of the Soviet
Union because some ultimate CIA guys in
their counterparts in in areas of the
KGB got to communicate with each other
and so that's a fascinating area bill
Harvey was you know in the thick of that
until he became the head of task force W
which was anti-castro operations he was
the senior officer inside something
called staff D which was communication
intercepts and of course he was you know
here and the executive action program
zero rifle program right and all that
not to put too fine a point on it that
is the assassination program of the CIA
mm-hmm yeah so on behalf of David
Talbott the AARC initiated a Freedom of
Information Act request I think in maybe
in May of 2013
something like that I think it's
possible I have no idea what I'm talking
about
I think it was May of 2013 and it was
really a request for materials relevant
to William King Harvey and a guy named F
mark Wyatt and Wyatt figured as someone
who was alluded to in David Talbots book
for making reference to Harvey in a
particular context that we were
interested in trying to follow up on so
we got some materials released on
September 29th of this year and I can
share with you something I don't think
I've shared with anybody else young lady
working inside the agency and the
information and privacy she's an
information privacy coordinator I don't
need to mention her name
but she's the our point of contact with
regard to the release of the particular
materials to which I'm referring and
you'll be interested just in the
language of this this is really the meat
and potatoes of what Jim Lazar and Dan
hardway and Dan Alcorn and some other
senior thinkers are engaged in it's not
so sensational because none of them are
pretending to be Lee Oswald's you know
girlfriend
but it is exciting in a way because it
results in us having stuff in our hands
that we have never been able to look at
before so here's the way it reads this
letter is in response to the Freedom of
Information Act request and subsequent
litigation submitted by your client
David Talbott for records on William
King Harvey and F mark Wyatt we
completed a review of potentially
responsive documents in accordance with
the FOIA and then there's lots of
technical legal stuff and it says as
amended and the CIA Information Act as
amended we have determined that four
hundred and seven documents can be
released in segregates hard as a set
Greg a bow form with with redactions
made on the basis of FOIA exemptions bla
bla bla bla bla the proper withholding
statute with regard to CIA is assertion
of FOIA exemption pertains to section 6
of the Central Intelligence Agency Act
of 1949 as amended noted as exemption on
the enclosed documents in section
such-and-such of the National Security
Act of 1947 as amended it has been
determined this is the good part that 65
documents must be denied in their
entirety Wow on the basis of FOIA
exemptions is that so exemptions pertain
to section such-and-such of the National
Security Act of 1947 as amended and
section 6 of the Central Intelligence
Agency Act of 1949 as amended regarding
CIA equities we have determined that 17
documents can be released in full copies
of these documents along with the
previous 407 documents referenced are
enclosed well so we got more than 400
documents different numbers of pages
associated with each of those and and
this is the process now of going through
all of this stuff and evaluating it and
in seeing where pieces might fit with
something else to which we've already
had
excess and that we may have been
thinking gosh not sure what this means
or what to make of this or you know
we're hopeful that eventually something
will connect to this that might be
constructive and that's kind of the way
it works the more interesting thing to
me Dave is 65 documents must be denied
in their entirety right pertaining
William King Harvey and Mark Wyatt isn't
that something well I would be surprised
that this is uh why wouldn't these be in
it lumped in with the JFK act stuff and
it's amazing reason is because you have
to understand the mechanism by which the
AR RB was required as a prerequisite to
their work they had to come to some kind
of determination about the the term
assassination related and you referred
to Judge tunheim earlier in our
conversation in judge tunheim had a
speaking engagement which CAPA produced
at the National Press Club on March 15th
I think of this year I was privileged to
be in the same room and judge tunheim
spoke and he was very much a proponent
of the release of all of the
assassination related materials but
maybe something even of even greater
significance is that he conceded he he
he's fully aware that I I mean I'm
paraphrasing but basically he said if
only we knew then what we know now he's
quite certain that not all of the things
which were designated or classified as
not believed relevant would meet the
same standards by which it would have
that designation today so so that's
important too there's a lot about all of
that that you know we could talk about
it a hell of a lot and we'd probably go
around in circles quite a bit it's very
frustrating is there is there anything
in particular that people at the AR C or
in the research community engine
looking forward to in the 2017 release
what we're all looking forward to is the
potential for discovery not necessarily
the type of thing like we got you know
the surprise release soon July 24th
you know big headline event was oh it
turns out that Mayor Earl Cabell whose
brother was General Charles Cabell who
had been fired by JFK as the deputy
director of the Central Intelligence
Agency
along with Allen Dulles and Richard
Bissell after the failure of the Bay of
Pigs that Mayor Cabell was himself a CIA
asset with all of the usual paperwork
associated with that position which is
something that that no one I know knew
but we're all you know the this is an
interesting question you raised because
we will make good use of whatever we get
but the thing to make note of is there's
a ton of stuff that we just can't
haven't had enough time really to to
invest in to deal with that has nothing
to do with the new batch of stuff which
is you know which is intriguing because
this is the stuff that has been withheld
either in part or in full so the my
friend bill sympathy was brilliant human
rights attorney and who devotes every
day of his life to trying to assist
people who might otherwise not be able
to afford assistance he's written a book
that's available on the great Rex
Bradford's website Mary Farrell dot org
is it or whatever it is the Mary Farrell
you think I'd know you know but it's
late and I'll put a link to everything
that we've you know anything else I'll
put a link right in the well so else
impeach has a book that Rex Bradford and
bill decided to make available for free
called state secret wiretapping in
Mexico City double agents in the framing
of Lee Oswald which is available at the
Mary Farrell foundation
and Mary Farrell org or whatever it is
and and that's something that I would
recommend and what we find is that by
going through documents we're not
looking for something that says oh my
god it turns out that what we think
happened actually happened what we're
really looking for is anything that
helps us have a more accurate model of
for instance the internal systems and
management of the agency at the peak of
the Cold War things that helped us have
a better understanding of how are things
designed to work so that when something
seems not to work when there seems to be
a break or when the protocols or the
system that's in place is it goes
sideways is my dear friend the ultimate
scholar Malcolm Blount has said so
wisely you have to have an educated
understanding of something about how it
what's it look like when it's working
part properly before you can recognize
what just happened is this does this
represent a subversion of a system
that's in place for a reason there are
systems in place for a reason to handle
things like for instance a 20 year old
marine marching in to the American
Embassy at Moscow and you know defecting
that's a deep thing it would take a long
time to do it justice I would tell you
that by studying the documents and not
merely relying upon books some of which
are less harmful than others it's a
cynical way of putting it instead of
expecting that a book is going to answer
all of our questions and provide you
with the peace of mind and the closure
that you've desperately sought since the
moment you first saw JFK the fillmore
became interested in this stuff I would
say to you that my experience in the
company of them of some truly
extraordinarily gifted and brilliant and
disciplined and cautious scholars I
would include
you know our ultimate mount right Mount
Rushmore figure Professor Peter Dale
Scott and dr. John Newman and Bill Simba
and Dan hard way
and Malcolm blunt and Jim Lazar and some
other very heavy guys that you don't
always hear a lot about you know because
they don't seek the limelight but our
progress is being earned because of
gradual incremental improvements in our
understanding of the way things worked
which allow for us to recognize when
something ain't right and there is no
more revealing example of something that
ain't right
then the period of four years between
the point on October 31st 1959 where Lee
Oswald defects to the Soviet Union and
four years later where events in Mexico
City at the Cuban consulate Soviet
embassy result in aberrations in
protocol in both cases something strange
in the extreme I get all excited and I
start talking faster and louder and I'm
trying to cut down on that but you know
this is where some really heavy heavy
action is and there was some very heavy
people deeply engaged in studying these
places and trying to figure it out yeah
like you mentioned to build Simba's has
done amazing work on that or going back
and reading the Lopez report to kind of
understand what really happened in
Mexico City or what the questions are so
much of our history around the Cold War
that it's really incredible what it's
opened up to people's eyes including
operation Northwoods and attacks on Cuba
all that kind of stuff so well I'm very
encouraged hearing you say that Dave
because that's a sophisticated
perception that you just made and that's
exactly why I'm taking advantage of
privileges which I enjoy to do things
like put up this Cold War context
resource on the AARC website we've got
something that came as the result of
malcolm blunts
suggestion documents and dossiers were
in putting up specific documents with a
brief explanation and allowing people to
take a hard look at the way this stuff
exists in the documentary record and
recognize that oh I didn't know about
this this is an interesting strange
moment in the documentary record we've
got an analysis and opinion second which
is as described you know this is an
opportunity for people associated with
the AARC in some manner or another to
have an opportunity to draw attention to
something and to kind of explore
possible perspectives possible
explanations for things that are worthy
of our awareness and should be taken
into consideration before we are too
quick too premature to come to a
conclusion no you're absolutely right
and that's what's amazing is you it's
one thing to read a book which is great
but when you get to read a book and then
go look at the exact document where that
information comes from it's so much more
fulfilling well I'll talk about another
organization let's talk about CAPA
they're gonna put on a mock trial of
yeah Lee Oswald but can you tell us just
a little bit about CAPA what they do and
kind of some of the people behind it and
then maybe about the mock trial my
friend Bill Kelly whose blog spots JFK
counter-coup and JFK counter-coup two
are always valuable and the eminent
forensic pathologist dr. Cyril Wecht is
the person who is the president of Kappa
and it's it stands for citizens against
political assassination and our
assassinations and it's is an activist
organization a lobbyists organization
and it's like JFK Lancer it produces
events so thank God for groups like
Lancer and CAPA because you know
occasionally the AARC has produced
something you alluded to their big
conference from 2014 which was
noteworthy perhaps even newsworthy and
groups like JFK Lancer and Kappa are
really not they're not content to simply
wait to see what happens they're
activist organizations that participate
in a democratic process by which you
know citizens are allowed to try to draw
attention to make an effort to challenge
the government of the United States to
comply with the law
and to you know be a bit more
transparent on issues that are
consequential to our story and to how we
tell our story to ourselves and teach it
to our children so that eventually the
truth might displace mythology so cafe
is indeed producing an event that will
draw attention to the case it's a
two-day mock trial
Larry Chef is involved in my friend Bill
Simba and and that's going to take place
I think around November 16th and 17th in
Texas and we have already put up some
reference to it at the AARC under news
and views and and I can refer to that
that notification
otherwise the Capo website we can put
that up too and also a wonderful
attorney who's the head of the justice
integrity project Andrew Craig gives an
executive also with Catholic right are
you will be going to Dallas in in
November for the I mean I've been asked
to participate the focus this year
according to my friend Larry Hancock is
relevant to these documents and all of
that and this year I can tell you that
we have you know some interesting things
to share because for the first time in
many years dr. John Newman will be there
and he will give to
presentations without we don't have time
to really begin to do justice to either
but I would say to you that they are
going to be they are going to be
relevant to a much needed assessment
within the research community of you
know are we being as thorough are we
being as conscientious are we being as
cautious and as careful as we can
possibly be so that the level of
scholarship as a very is you know a very
high level and so he's going to address
you know spy versus spy stuff relevant
to KGB versus CIA and the angled
angleton mole hunt and he's on a
completely separate topic on the next
day he's going to address the subject of
Antonio vasana
and David Phillips in Cuba under the
title fiction is stranger than truth
very yeah that's a fact well this is a
good a good way to bring us into your
work with with dr. Newman do you wanna
now he's written here he's in the midst
of writing this five volumes set maybe
six do you want easy easy for you to say
oh that's great seven yeah hey if we
could we'll take all we can get can you
can you tell us oh he's the picture he's
trying to paint here is he going to
cover every I mean he started the first
book starts in the 50s is he going to
how far is he going to take know he was
going wherever he needs to go and I
would say to you that the first thing I
would say is that this guy is an
extremely uncommon kind of human being
he was a decorated army intelligence
officer with an area of expertise that
is very complicated as an intelligence
analyst and he distinguished himself in
the company of General William Odum
while Odum was the head of Army
Intelligence and he did so to such an
extent than when
that when general Odom accepted an
appointment to become the director of
the National Security Agency
he chose dr. John Newman among all of
the potential other candidates he told
and chose dr. Newman to be his military
assistant for two years so for two years
John Newman's desk sat out front out in
in the in front of the door to general
Williams office and every single piece
of information that was sent to general
Odom stopped on dr. Newman's death for a
thumbs up a thumbs down or something in
the middle he's in an East Asian scholar
he's he's an authority on comparative
religions and he he he did them the
thing that is probably most desirable
and most difficult for serious academic
research he overturned orthodoxies and
introduced new facts in the form of a
book Oh JFK and Vietnam which which
received extraordinary praise in
extraordinary criticism in 1991-92 for a
period of about five months which
included two people in particular not
exclusively but two people in particular
who went out of their way to contribute
whatever they could to draw attention to
the importance of this book the book was
called JFK and Vietnam the two people
who acted without provocation to to
assist in drawing attention to this
important work were former director of
the Central Intelligence Agency William
Colby and former assistant to President
Kennedy Arthur Schlesinger jr. both of
whom I think my interpretation of it is
that they felt that this was an
important story which had never up until
that point been told with such authority
and in with such documentation by
someone with you know that this kind of
military discipline and this kind of
attention to detail so that was a big
deal it was also a big deal five months
after the book's publication when the
publisher Warner books owned by Time
Warner shut down the book
use to return calls from its author and
made that made the book unavailable and
only because of you know interesting
word is the serendipity of intervention
by a distinguished member of a
distinguished American family did dr.
Newman receive the rights to the book
which were returned to him and that's
where it stood through the process by
which dr. Newman produced one of the
most consequential books that is a part
of our story
Oswald in the CIA published in 1995
updated in 2008 with the new PostScript
a new epilogue that was important in the
meantime he did nothing with JFK in
Vietnam he gave an important
dissertation called Mexico City a new
interpretation at the JFK Lancer
conference in 1999 he continued working
on something which he thought for a
while would be JFK and Cuba ultimately
that did not happen and after his
revision in update to Oswald in the CIA
in 2008 he got out of the business he
got out of the business and you know
it's not like he hadn't earned a break
but he's an interesting and uncommon
person so for him taking a break meant
producing a book called quest for the
kingdom the secret teachings of Jesus in
the light of yogic mysticism was you
know that's what you do to relax right
and then you know I I was in contact
with him and gradually he let me know
that he had gotten back into the game
and that was big news because it was it
was an important fork in the road for
him because he realized based upon
everything that had been relevant to his
work which my friend Jay Harvey assisted
in invaluable ways it was
it was a point where he had to decide
look if I'm getting in I'm all-in and
what does that mean I mean it means the
rest of my life following it as far as
I'm capable of doing or I'm gonna stay
out because there it's too engrossing
it's too deep it's too complicated to
think in terms of I'm gonna do one book
and then that'll be the extent of it so
he did indeed decide he was going to do
a multi-volume series and I had the
privilege or you know god-awful burden
of assisting him and so that he produced
so that he produced JFK and Vietnam the
second edition this year January along
with a revised a revised first volume
where angels tread lightly the brand-new
second volume second volume in the
series which is called countdown to
darkness and now we are deeply immersed
in the third volume which will be called
into the storm and and you know strap
strap yourselves in because it's a wild
ride and it's an ambitious project and
I'm happy to tell you that dr. Newman
himself thinks of it as work on JFK's
life and his assassination it's not you
know as is sometimes the case it's not
just oh this is all about the
assassination because the part that's
left out of that is everything
consequential about President Kennedy's
life
you know his death is consequential
because his life was consequential and
doctrine German is breaking new ground
and which is something that he seems
sort of uniquely qualified to do and
it's it's an extraordinary effort it's
an extraordinary project and I'm happy
to say that it's going very well right
now will the third volume go through the
asite what's the scope of the third
volume if you could just give
a hint uh we are dealing in because the
he's dealing with a chronology but and a
very broad geographic spectrum it's not
chronological from you know a particular
point to a particular you know to the
assassination per se because there's
quite a lot to the story which if you're
up-to-date on dr. Newman's absolutely
essential work JFK and Vietnam the
second edition you won't see that this
story does not conclude with President
Kennedy's assassination and so we have
to go a little bit beyond that to
understand you know to have a broader
overview a broader perspective about
developments that are that can only be
seen by looking from particular points
prior to the assassination to particular
points post assassination so right now
I'm not you know I'm not giving up any
secret to say that we're dealing with
the story of Antonio vasana as is
presented in a very very detailed
analysis of everything that he has ever
said to congressional inquiries and to
to date and Fonzi into you know to
interviewers and in his book and we're
also dealing with the spy versus spy
stuff which focuses very very seriously
on a figure named Yuri no senko right
the Russian defector and Antonio ves
iana just to remind people was the Cuban
exile leader who told the HSC a that he
had seen someone that he or that he came
to know as Maurice Bishop with Lee
Harvey Oswald but it became clear in the
work of the HSC a that this was
eventually that the Western Hemisphere
division David out Lee Phillips of the
of the CIA yeah I think that's basically
the story as I understand
and it and you know I mean part of the
thing to which I referred earlier about
you know we want to be cautious and
maybe it's not a bad idea to take very
seriously the late Christopher Hitchens
recommendation that we are most
skeptical and most cautious and most
careful about issues that we would want
to be true that are pleasing to us
because it's like oh yeah I always
suspected that and that that's when it's
to our ultimate advantage to be most
critical and most you know engaged in
trying to examine the veracity of
absolutely that's what we're after
things the truth we don't want to fool
ourselves here well I don't want to go
without talking about your JFK
conversation series because this is one
of the things early on that I tore
through all of these interviews you did
with people just so much information in
there and they're you know they were
done within the last couple years so
they're very up to date can you tell us
this is JFK conversations calm can you
tell us just what you're trying to do
with that series and yeah I would say to
you I appreciate your interest in those
they are continuing I have been
extremely preoccupied with other things
but I have a lot of stuff that I have
yet to edit or have yet to put up this
opportunity was brought to me by one of
my dearest friends who sadly is no
longer with us but it's to our it's our
good fortune that she was here at all
her name was sherry Feaster she wrote a
book called enemy of the truth myths
forensics and the Kennedy assassination
by Sherry Feaster she is Debra Conway's
sister and Debra Conway's that was very
close to Mary Farrow and is the
president of JFK Lancer and one thing
led to another and Deborah and sherry
gave me an extraordinary opportunity
which I certainly did not seek and was
slightly baffled by you know the
invitation to begin a series of
conversations with ultimate scholars and
so some of the conversations you know I
have special sort of recollections like
being so nervous about speaking with
someone of the stature of Professor
Peter Dale Scott I cannot recommend
highly enough the work of Professor
Peter Dale Scott he is he's so truly
heroic figure without whom the people
with whom I work the people that I
admire the most would be elsewhere in
this in this journey and so I spoke with
Professor Scott and I had a long time to
prepare for it and I I was revising the
introduction literally the morning of
the we were going to record it and
because I had so much time I learned how
to pronounce chess chess wofe me wash
who was one of his very closest friends
in his life into his great polish poet
and dear friend someone whose work he
translated and all of that and I will
confide something to you I I was so
stunned that the conversation seemed to
go well that when it went when it was
over I walked outside and I thought I
can't believe this went well did it go
well it did this really and then I could
not remember anything about what we
talked about and I thought how could I
have spent an hour and 45 minutes
talking to this guy that I revere and so
naturally I thought oh my god what if it
didn't record so thank God thank God it
was there and I sent a courtesy email to
Professor Scott and I said thank you for
allowing me the extraordinary privilege
I'll never forget it in my life I'm very
grateful to you and the next morning a
typical of his you know very elegant
courtesy I had an email from him and he
said well I am very grateful to you and
he highlighted the word ver
Dave in red and I framed this email he
says I'm very grateful to you it was an
enjoyable
interviewer words to that effect and so
that really did me some good because it
made me feel like well you know
apparently it's possible that I can do
this because that was the one that I was
most concerned about and since then I've
got a an extraordinary catalogue really
of materials which include Professor you
know all kinds of professors David Rowan
and you know Joan Mellon and especially
dr. John Newman and and dr. Josiah
Thompson whom I love and and a real live
extraordinary British scholar maybe the
most knowledgeable person I'll ever know
in my life about about the competing
intelligence agencies of the Cold War
Malcolm Blount so I've got some good
stuff there and you will be intrigued to
know that I'm editing seven and a half
hours of conversation between Malcolm
and dr. Newman oh wow okay
no that's yeah it's pretty good
something for sure I'm excited so I feel
about it well that's good that's good to
hear and I I recommend you know
everybody should go if you want to know
what's what's going on that's one of the
best series I can think of is is JFK
conversation so much appreciate it
appreciate it very much is there any is
there anything else you want to add that
we know we didn't get that's nice of you
to say I want to draw attention to a
couple of people that are active on
Facebook and whose work I want to
acknowledge and and and complement their
there's a guy that I've come to know
that is in a strange way a kindred
spirit to me named Doug Campbell hmm and
he hosts podcast called the Dallas
action I recommend he did a show
recently with a guy named Michael
Swanson that I think is especially
valuable and you know me well enough to
know that I'm
that man I am cautious about when I say
I think this is something that we should
draw attention to also Chuck Oh Shelley
and carmine Savastano both of whom you
know participate in chucks programs and
these are good guys they're old you know
on a path that I can relate to because
they're they're critical you know
they're they're conscientious about
differentiating between what's possible
and what's plausible what's demonstrably
true or what is demonstrably false and
they are also very intolerant of the
charlatans and frauds who impose
themselves on our story our our
challenge is difficult enough without
having a you know having contrivances
imposed upon us that that we have to
work around or stop and examine and
discard it slows us down it it adversely
affects us there's a guy named David
Rees Jones who's moderator on one or two
of the websites or on Facebook also very
thoughtful I mean I I'm kind of you know
we could make a joke about how minute
how much crazy there is and how many
people see things based upon what they
want to be true or whatever or invest in
charlatans and frauds and we're people
with grandiose delusional disorders or
whatever but I'm impressed by how many
thoughtful and intelligence and
knowledge knowledgeable people are there
are all kinds of people that find you
know a community are on Facebook where
constructive interaction is possible and
and I like that idea I think this is a
lonely pursuit and to find yourself in
the company of people who are going
through the same kind of thing that
you're going through and can help you
know maybe they can help explain
something to you or explore something
and you can do the same for them all of
that I think is constructive and
valuable and and I'm happy to be
uh aware of of where it is right now
right well I think you're exactly right
and we're all standing on the shoulders
of the people who came before us and
we're all working on that work and
trying to tie it with all the new things
that come out so before before I go I
want to also acknowledge your hidden
history work the channel that you've
created on YouTube and the choices that
you make about the kind of thing that
you think is worthy of people's
awareness that's exactly the same kind
of thing that I'm engaged in on you know
for several different websites and I
think what you're doing is admirable and
constructive and I'm grateful to you for
investing the necessary time to get to
the point where you're exercising the
judgment that you have in your
programming well thank you for saying
that I appreciate it and you know the
there is something about this issue that
you know this is what attracts people's
attention you know it's something that's
so deep within I mean the JFK
assassination in particular something
that's so deep in people's minds you
know almost anything I could put up just
doesn't have the deep hole in the
interest and I think it's because people
know just how just how important that
that event really was so if they don't
know it
I wonder if sometimes it's a case of
having a sense and sort of a haunting
kind of you know intuition that
something went terribly wrong in this
country at that moment that it is not an
overstatement it is not melodramatic to
say that was a verbal fork in the road
and things have maybe gotten measurably
worse in many many ways since that event
well I don't think anybody can take a
look at what's happening now and say
everything's okay that would be a tough
one
I mean anybody who looks at you know
they're like you said early on there is
that brief period in the 70s where you
have water
then you have the church committee but
by the time late in the Carter's
administration but certainly by the time
Reagan comes in 1980 and and really that
1980 election it wasn't just Reagan
coming in they got rid of you know the
right wing got rid of McGovern they got
rid of Senator Church they got rid of
about five big important senators that
you would consider kind of Kennedy
liberals maybe or that type and it just
you know everything since favorite
favorite one of those is Gary Hart
photographed with a beautiful blonde in
his lap on a boat where you can see the
name of the boat in the name of the boat
is monkey business so someone that I'm
close to said well you know they didn't
need a gun for that one do you realize
that Pamela Harriman Averell Harriman's
widows well-connected in you know in the
highest level of the DC or Democratic
Party superstructure that she had
intervened on behalf of Gary Hart during
that year to get Ted Sorensen to agree
to work as a speechwriter for Gary Hart
Wow that didn't work out didn't know
that worked out about as well as Jimmy
Carter nominating Ted Sorensen to be to
succeed George Herbert Walker Bush as
director of Central Intelligence yes
that didn't work out so well we now know
there's actually a video of I guess is
the news clip but uh of that on YouTube
someplace and his his his statement he
leaves his well they could probably find
somebody at worse and I'm sure they will
and I appreciate getting to speak with
you and happy to do so anytime great no
thank you very much Alan I really
appreciate it and yeah it was great
talking to you
take care
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you